Release: Botan 3.7.1 (#284)
sehlen-bsi/botan-docs: docs/audit_report/src/02_security_issues.rst

Security and Vulnerabilities
============================

Insufficient Input Parameter Validation in ECDH
-----------------------------------------------

Both [TR-03111]_ Section 4.3.1 and [TR-02102-1]_ Section 2.3.6 specify that

> implementations should check that the calculated shared secret point is an
> ordinary point on the curve and not the identity element. Only then should the
> calculated shared secret be used, otherwise an error should be emitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementations should check that the calculated shared secret point is a
point on the curve and not equal to the identity element. Only then should the
calculated shared secret be used, otherwise an error should be emitted.
```

> This situation cannot occur in any correct execution of the ECDH protocol,

Reviewer: Authentication doesn't solve this issue directly (only indirectly since you imply that the other party is trusted to execute the protocol honestly). But if there is for instance an implementation error or a broken RNG or so on the other side, authentication doesn't help at all to prevent the issue to occur. I would certainly choose a stronger workding here like "while during a correct execution of the ECDH protocol this situation is extremely unlikely to occure and [TR-02102-1]_ Section 2.3.6 also mandates that the key agreement "must be secured by means of strong authentication", the implementation in Botan 3.7.1 is not in accordance with ... and should not be used.

Reviewer 2: Added stronger wording
